{
  "title": "Improving Zero-shot Translation with Language-Independent Constraints",
  "abstract": "An important concern in training multilingual neural machine translation (NMT) is to translate between language pairs unseen during training, i.e zero-shot translation. Improving this ability kills two birds with one stone by providing an alternative to pivot translation which also allows us to better understand how the model captures information between languages. In this work, we carried out an investigation on this capability of the multilingual NMT models. First, we intentionally create an encoder architecture which is independent with respect to the source language. Such experiments shed light on the ability of NMT encoders to learn multilingual representations, in general. Based on such proof of concept, we were able to design regularization methods into the standard Transformer model, so that the whole architecture becomes more robust in zero-shot conditions. We investigated the behaviour of such models on the standard IWSLT 2017 multilingual dataset. We achieved an average improvement of 2.23 BLEU points across 12 language pairs compared to the zero-shot performance of a state-of-the-art multilingual system. Additionally, we carry out further experiments in which the effect is confirmed even for language pairs with multiple intermediate pivots.",
  "Introduction": [
    "Neural machine translation (NMT) exploits neural networks to directly learn to transform sentences from a source language to a target language BIBREF0 , BIBREF1 . Universal multilingual NMT discovered that a neural translation system can be trained on datasets containing source and target sentences in multiple languages BIBREF2 , BIBREF3 . Successfully trained models using this approach can be used to translate arbitrarily between any languages included in the training data. In low-resource scenarios, multilingual NMT has proven to be an extremely useful regularization method since each language direction benefits from the information of the others BIBREF4 , BIBREF5 .",
    "An important research focus of multilingual NMT is zero-shot translation (ZS), or translation between languages included in multilingual data for which no directly parallel training data exists. Application-wise, ZS offers a faster and more direct path between languages compared to pivot translation, which requires translation to one or many intermediate languages. This can result in large latency and error propagation, common issues in non-end-to-end pipelines.From a representation learning point of view, there is evidence of NMT's ability to capture language-independent features, which have proved useful for cross-lingual transfer learning BIBREF6 , BIBREF7 and provide motivation for ZS translation. However it is still unclear if minimizing the difference in representations between languages is beneficial for zero-shot learning.",
    "On the other hand, the current neural architecture and learning mechanisms of multilingual NMT is not geared towards having a common representation. Different languages are likely to convey the same semantic content with sentences of different lengths BIBREF8 , which makes the desiderata difficult to achieve. Moreover, the loss function of the neural translation model does not favour having sentences encoded in the same representation space regardless of the source language. As a result, if the network capacity is large enough, it may partition itself into different sub-spaces for different language pairs BIBREF9 .",
    "Our work here focuses on the zero-shot translation aspect of universal multilingual NMT. First, we attempt to investigate the relationship of encoder representation and ZS performance. By modifying the Transformer architecture of BIBREF10 to afford a fixed-size representation for the encoder output, we found that we can significantly improve zero-shot performance at the cost of a lower performance on the supervised language pairs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first empirical evidence showing that the multilingual model can capture both language-independent and language-dependent features, and that the former can be prioritized during training.",
    "This observation leads us to the most important contribution in this work, which is to propose several techniques to learn a joint semantic space for different languages in multilingual models without any architectural modification. The key idea is to prefer a source language-independent representation in the decoder using an additional loss function. As a result, the NMT architecture remains untouched and the technique is scalable to the number of languages in the training data. The success of this method is shown by significant gains on zero-shot translation quality in the standard IWSLT 2017 multilingual benchmark BIBREF11 . Finally, we introduce a more challenging scenario that involves more than one bridge language between source and target languages. This challenging setup confirms the consistency of our zero-shot techniques while clarifying the disadvantages of pivot-based translation."
  ],
  "Background: Multilingual Neural Machine Translation": [
    "Given an input sequence INLINEFORM0 and its translation INLINEFORM1 , neural machine translation (NMT) uses sequence-to-sequence models BIBREF0 to directly model the posterior probability of generating INLINEFORM2 from INLINEFORM3 .",
    "Universal multilingual NMT expands the original bilingual setting by combining parallel corpora from multiple language pairs into one single corpus. By directly training the NMT model on this combined corpus, the model can be made to translate sentences from any seen source language into any seen target language. Notably, this multilingual framework does not yield any difference in the training objective, i.e maximizing the likelihood of the target sentence INLINEFORM0 given the source sentence INLINEFORM1 : DISPLAYFORM0 ",
    "Previous work on universal NMT proposed different methods to control language generation. While source language identity may not be the concern, the decoder requires a target language signal to generate sentences in any desired language. Work from BIBREF4 and BIBREF3 used the addition of language identity tokens in order to minimize architectural changes while controlling generation. Subsequently, stronger constraints were bestowed upon the decoder to force the correct language to be generated through language features or vocabulary filtering during decoding BIBREF12 .",
    "In practice, the number of language pairs in a multilingual corpus increases exponentially over the size of the language set. Therefore, a multilingual corpus rarely covers all of the language pairs involved, resulting in a need to investigate translation between the missing directions. The missing directions are referred as `zero-shot translation' as the model has no access to any explicit parallel samples, naturally or artificially."
  ],
  "Proof of concept: Fixed-size encoder representations for language-independence": [
    "As the length of encoder representations depends on the source language, current architectures are not ideal to learn language-independent encoder representations. Therefore, we propose different architectures with fixed-size encoder representations. This also allows us to directly compare encoder representations of different languages, and to enforce such similarity through an additional loss function. This modification comes with the price of an information bottleneck due to the process of removing the length variability. On the other hand, it adds additional regularization which would naturally prioritize the features shared between languages.",
    "Motivated by the literature in sentence embeddings BIBREF13 , BIBREF14 , we take the average over time of the encoder states. Specifically, assume that INLINEFORM0 is the set of source embeddings input to the encoder: DISPLAYFORM0 ",
    "The purpose of this modification is two-fold. First, this model explicitly opens more possibilities for language-independent representation to occur, because every sentence is compressed into a consistent number of states. Second, we can observe the balance between language-independent and language-dependent information in the encoder; if zero-shot performance is minimally affected, then the encoder is in general able to capture language-independent information, and this restricted encoder retains this information.",
    "However, this model naturally has a disadvantage due to the introduced information bottleneck, similar to non-attention models BIBREF0 , BIBREF15 . We alleviate this problem by expanding the number of hidden states of the encoder output. As a result we investigate two variations of pooling as follows:"
  ],
  "Source Language-Independent Decoders": [
    "We have so far described our proposed method to learn language-independent features. We introduce the fixed-size states for the encoder and adds a regularization term to the NMT loss function to encourage similarity between encoder states. The problem with this method is the limiting factor of the fixed-size representations. With the standard architecture, while the length of the encoder states always depends on the source sentence, at each timestep the decoder only has access to a fixed representation of the encoder (context vector from attention). This observation suggests that forcing a decoder state to be independent of the source language and maintaining the variable-size representation for the encoder is possible. In this section, we navigate the target NMT architecture back to the popular variable-length sequential encoder in which no such compromise was made.",
    "Starting from the above motivation, the key idea is to force a source language-independent representation in the decoder using an additional loss function. We achieve this by operating the encoder-decoder flow not only from the source sentence to the target, but also from the source to itself to recreate the source sentence. While this resembles an auto-encoder which can be combined with translation BIBREF16 , BIBREF17 , it is not necessary to minimize the auto-encoder likelihood as in the multi-task approach BIBREF18 , but only the decoder-level similarity between the true target sentence and the auto-encoded source sentence. Due to the lack of true parallel data, this method serves as a bridge between the different languages.",
    "An important feature of the NMT attention mechanism is that it extracts relevant information in encoded memory (the keys and queries, in this case they are the source sentence hidden states) and compresses them into one single state. More importantly, in the decoder operation this operator dynamically repeats every timestep. By using the encoder to encode both (source and target) sentences and operate the attentive decoder on top of both encoded sentences, we obtain two attentive representations of the two sentences which are equally long. This is the key to enabling forced-length representations in our model.",
    "Given the described model, the question is about where in the model we can apply our representation-forcing from Equation EQREF7 . Due to the nature of many translation models being multi-layered, it is not as straightforward as in the pooled encoder models. Hence, we investigate three different locations where this regularization method can be applied. Their illustration is depicted in Figure FIGREF8 ."
  ],
  "Related Work": [
    "Zero-shot translation is of considerable concern among the multilingual translation community. By sharing network parameters across languages, ZS was proven feasible for universal multilingual MT BIBREF4 , BIBREF3 . There are many variations of multilingual models geared towards zero-shot translation. BIBREF20 proposed to explicitly define a recurrent layer with a fixed number of states as “Interlingua” which resembles our attention-pooling models. However, they compromise the model compactness by having separate encoder-decoder per language, which linearly increases the model size across languages. On the other hand, BIBREF21 shares all parameters, but utilized a parameter generator to generate specific parameters for the LSTMs in each language pair using language embeddings. The closest to our work is probably BIBREF9 . The authors aimed to regularize the model into a common encoding space by taking the mean-pooling of the encoder states and minimize the cosine similarity between the source and the target sentence encodings. In comparison, our approach is more generalized because the decoder is also taken into account during regularization, which is shown by our results on the IWSLT benchmark. Also, we proposed stronger representation-forcing since the cosine similarity minimizes the angle between two representational vectors, while the MSE forces them to be exactly equal. In addition, zero-resource techniques which generate artificial data for the missing directions have been proposed as an alternative to zero-shot translation BIBREF22 , BIBREF23 , BIBREF24 . The main disadvantage, however, is the requirement of computationally expensive sampling during training which makes the algorithm less scalable to the number of languages. In our work, we focus on minimally affecting the training paradigm of universal multilingual NMT."
  ],
  "Conclusion": [
    "This work provides a through investigation of zero-shot translation in multilingual NMT. We conduct an analysis of neural architectures for zero-shot through two three different modifications showing that a beneficial shared representation can be learned for zero-shot translation. Furthermore, we provide a regularization scheme to encourage the model to capture language-independent features for the Transformer model which increases zero-shot performance by INLINEFORM0 BLEU points, achieving the state-of-the-art zero-shot performance in the standard benchmark IWSLT2017 dataset. We also proposed an alternative setting with more than one language as a bridge. In this challenging setup for zero-shot translation, we confirmed the consistent effects of our method by showing that the benefit is still significant when languages are far from each other in the pivot path. This result also motivates future works to apply the same strategy for other end-to-end tasks such as speech translation where there may be more variability in domains and modalities."
  ],
  "Acknowledgments": [
    " The project ELITR leading to this publication has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme under grant agreement No 825460. We thank Elizabeth Salesky for the constructive comments."
  ]
}